---
date: '2023-03-05'
title: CAD Assistant 
description: Using CAD Assistant to convert from different formats to GLB or GLTF for ThreeJS
readTime: 5
---

# CAD Assistant

<img width="500" height="500" alt="Picture of the `three.js`" src="/assets/three/dev.png"/>

In today's world, 3D modeling is becoming increasingly essential in the design
and manufacturing industries. 3D models help designers visualize their products
and designs before production, reducing the cost and time required for physical
prototyping. Computer-aided design (CAD) software is the primary tool used for
3D modeling, and the ability to convert CAD models to the web-friendly GLB
format can be incredibly valuable. In this blog post, we will explore how to use
CAD Assistant to convert CAD files to GLB files and then display them using
`three.js`.

CAD Assistant is a free tool that allows users to convert CAD files to a variety
of formats, including GLB. GLB is a binary format that is ideal for displaying
3D models on the web since it contains all the necessary information for
rendering a 3D model in a single file. To get started, we need to convert our
CAD file to a GLB file using CAD Assistant.

First, we can download and install CAD Assistant from the developer's website.
Once installed, we can open the application and select "Import" from the file
menu to import our CAD file. CAD Assistant supports a wide range of file
formats, including STEP, IGES, and STL.

After importing the CAD file, we can select "Export" from the file menu and
choose "GLTF/GLB" as the export format. We can then choose the desired export
settings, such as the scale and rotation of the model. Finally, we can click
"Export" to generate a GLB file.

Now that we have our GLB file, we can use `three.js` to display the 3D model in
a web browser. `three.js` is a powerful JavaScript library that enables
developers to create 3D visualizations and animations on the web. To display our
GLB file using `three.js`, we can use the `useGLTF` to load the file into our
scene:

```js
import { useGLTF } from '@react-three/drei'

function MyModel() {
  const { nodes, materials } = useGLTF('/path/to/model.glb')

  return (
    <group>
      <mesh
        geometry={nodes.mesh_0.geometry}
        material={materials.material_0}
      />
    </group>
  )
}

function App() {
  return (
    <Canvas>
      <Suspense fallback={<div>Loading...</div>}>
        <MyModel />
      </Suspense>
    </Canvas>
  )
}
```

This code defines a React component called "MyModel" that loads a GLB file using
the UseGLTF Loader from React Three Fiber. The "useGLTF" hook takes the path to
the GLB file as a parameter and returns an object that contains the loaded nodes
and materials.

In this example, we're only using one node and one material, so we can access
them directly using the "nodes" and "materials" properties of the returned
object. We then use these properties to create a "mesh" component that renders
the geometry with the material.

Note that the UseGLTF Loader automatically handles the asynchronous loading of
the GLB file, so there's no need to worry about loading the file manually. Also,
make sure to wrap your component in a Suspense component to handle any loading
errors or delays.

In conclusion, CAD Assistant is a powerful tool for converting CAD files to the
GLB format, which is ideal for displaying 3D models on the web. With ThreeJS, we
can easily load and manipulate GLB files to create interactive 3D visualizations
and animations. The ability to convert CAD files to GLB format opens up new
possibilities for displaying 3D models on the web, making it easier than ever to
visualize and share designs and products.
